--- docs/README.pod.orig	2024-08-01 13:37:02 UTC
+++ docs/README.pod
@@ -103,6 +103,21 @@ Will still use H.264 if server doesn't support HEVC or
 Not all video decoders support H.265/HEVC or AV1.
 Will still use H.264 if server doesn't support HEVC or AV1.
 
+=item B<-yuv444>
+
+Try to use yuv444 format.Better color display but not efficiency.
+Note:Now only support hevc(h265) with xvuy format use vaapi platform.
+Need sunshine host support and just support vaapi or x11 platform.
+If meet h264+YUV444P, use 'x11' platform instead.
+See games/moonlight-embedded-devel source code directory:
+'sunshine-yuv444-diff'.
+
+=item B<-fakegrab>
+
+Fake grab keyboard and mouse on embedded(not SDL) platform.
+Not grab window anymore.
+Use Ctrl+Alt+Shift+M to switch.
+
 =item B<-remote> [I<yes/no/auto>]
 
 Enable optimizations for LAN or WAN streaming.
@@ -138,7 +153,7 @@ Select platform for audio and video output and input.
 =item B<-platform> [I<PLATFORM>]
 
 Select platform for audio and video output and input.
-<PLATFORM> can be pi, imx, aml, x11, x11_vdpau, sdl or fake.
+<PLATFORM> can be vaapi, sdl, x11, x11_vaapi, wayland_vaapi, rk or fake etc.
 
 =item B<-nounsupported>
 
@@ -170,9 +185,18 @@ Only evdev devices /dev/input/event* are supported.
 By default all available input devices are enabled.
 Only evdev devices /dev/input/event* are supported.
 
+=item B<-sdlgp>
+
+Using SDL gamepad driver instead of evdev when using 
+'x11' or 'x11_vaapi'(not sdl) platform.
+
+=item B<-swapxyab>
+
+Swap x/y and a/b for gamepad.Only effected on embedded(not sdl) platform.
+
 =item B<-audio> [I<DEVICE>]
 
-Use <DEVICE> as audio output device.
+Use <DEVICE> as audio output device on embedded system such as Raspberry Pi.
 The default value is 'sysdefault' for ALSA and 'hdmi' for OMX on the Raspberry Pi.
 
 =item B<-windowed>
@@ -184,19 +208,65 @@ Only available when X11 or SDL platform is used.
 
 =head1 CONFIG FILE
 
-Moonlight Embedded will load a confiuration file from:
+Moonlight Embedded will load a configuration file from:
 
-  $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/moonligt/moonlight.conf (fallback to ~/.config/moonligt/moonlight.conf)
+  $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/moonlight/moonlight.conf (fallback to ~/.config/moonlight/moonlight.conf)
 
 If no user specified configuration file is available the configuration will be loaded from:
 
-  /etc/moonlight/moonlight.conf
+  /usr/local/etc/moonlight/moonlight.conf
 
-A documented example configuration file can be found at /etc/moonlight/moonlight.conf.
+A documented example configuration file can be found at /usr/local/etc/moonlight/moonlight.conf.
 
+=head1 GAMEPAD
+
+ Xbox360 controller need xb360gp(4) or 'multimedia/webcamd and cuse(3)'
+ X-input or d-input gamepads need hgame(4) or webcamd.
+ FreeBSD supports some controllers.Please see hgame(4) xb360gp(4) ps4dshock(4) and FreeBSD forums
+ Embedded platforms such as 'x11/x11_vaapi/vaapi' use evdev driver.
+ May be only evdev(not sdl) could support xbox360 seriers on FreeBSD.
+ Use '$ moonlight map -input /dev/input/eventN >> ~/.config/moonlight/gamecontrollerdb.txt' 
+ to create mapping for embedded(not sdl) platform.
+ Or use 'x11/antimicrox' to create mapping for sdl platform.
+ $HOME/.config/moonlight/gamecontrollerdb.txt could be created and used by default.
+
+ Option '-sdlgp' can enable sdl gamepad driver instead of evdev for embedded platform.
+ Note: No rumble feature now.
+
+=head1 KEYBOARD SHORTCUTS
+
+ Use Ctrl+Alt+Shift+Q or Play+Back+LeftShoulder+RightShoulder to quit the streaming session.
+ Use Ctrl+Alt+Shift+Z to Grab/Ungrab keyboard.
+ Use Ctrl+Alt+Shift+M to fakeGrab/normalGrab keyboard.
+ It could not grab the keyboard Using sdl platform.
+
+=head1 EXAMPLE
+
+Pair:
+  # moonlight pair 192.168.0.1
+
+Connect:
+ The following cmd means to connect 192.168.0.1 with a resolution 2560x1600.
+  # moonlight stream -app Desktop -width 2560 -height 1600 192.168.0.1
+ The following cmd means to connect 192.168.0.1 with a resolution 1080p and the fps 120.And try to decoding with GPU.
+  # moonlight stream -app Steam -width 1920 -height 1080 -fps 120 \ 
+                     -platform 'x11_vaapi' 192.168.0.1
+  Do not want grab keyboard and mouse:
+  # moonlight stream -app Desktop -width 1920 -height 1080 -fps 120 \
+                     -platform 'vaapi' -fakegrab 192.168.0.1
+
 =head1 COMMENTS
 
-Use Ctrl+Alt+Shift+Q or Play+Back+LeftShoulder+RightShoulder to quit the streaming session.
+ Platform 'sdl' and 'x11' is soft decoding.
+ Only platform 'x11/vaapi/x11_vaapi/wayland' support yuv444 video mode.
+ Only some gpu support yuv444 video mode. And need sunshine host support.
+ Platform '*vaapi' is decoding by gpu.
+ If you want to use GPU decoding for intel gpu,you must do:
+   1.Use platform 'x11_vaapi' or 'wayland_vaapi' or 'vaapi'
+   2.Install package:libva-intel-driver/libva-intel-media-driver.
+
+ Multi keyboard may meet bugs.Please man kbdmux or kbdcontrol.
+ And try to disable kbdmux or use -input to specify wanted keyboards or mouses.
 
 =head1 AUTHOR
 
